Shaft_sensor_mounting.txt
01/23/2014

1.  Quick test

- Plug in the wall-wart and the connector to the "power box".

The "power box" regulates the voltage to 8v and limits current to the 
CAN bus.  For the winch operation the wall-wart will be replaced with 
a cable with aligator clips to connect to the 12v battery.

- Plug the CAN bus cable into the shaft sensor module.

The CAN bus jacks, two on each unit, are connected in parallel so that
the CAN bus cables connect in a "daisy-chain."  The very last unit of
the chain gets a "terimation plug," which I did not include in this shipment.

- The Green LED near CAN bus jack will show that it is receiving power.

- Holding the module and running your finger past the photodectectors on 
the bottom should make each Red LED light.  This shows the status of the
detection and provides a way to check that the unit is detecting the 
white/black segments when it is mounted.

2.  Feel free to open up the shaft encoder box

-  The PC board can be removed as well.
-  Most likely the underside of the box will mount to the bracket, and to this
   requires removing the PC board.

3. Printed code wheels

I have a program that prints these.  I only have an inkjet printer and the
ink will smear with water so they aren't the best.  Charlie has a laser printer
and the toner is more permanent.  I'll have him print some.

Or, if you have a laser printer I could send you the pdf file.

4. Mounting Magnets

Let me know what you think about using them.  If they look like the way to go
I'll order some more.  Let me know which configuration (stud or hole) is best.
I like the idea that you don't have to drill & tap any holes and these things 
really "stick."

5. Water proofing

I'm a little worried about the water, e.g. rain or driving through a puddle and
water splashing.  The units are not water proof by any means.  Sealing is difficult,
given the type of connectors, plus unless it is really waterproof moisture can
built up inside, so some ventilation is probably good.  

There might be a way to mount a plastic cover, e.g. use one of those plastic boxes 
for food, that keeps direct rain or splashed water from getting in.

If you have any ideas about this issue let know.  I've thought it about a lot and I 
haven't come up with any simple, inexpensive scheme, and it seems there ought to be one.

6. Fairlead pulleys

I'm now of the opinion that this first attempt should include the fairlead pulleys.  
With the drive shaft and fairlead pulleys we can compute effective drum diameter,
and that should be useful for correlating tension to the pressure sensitive film
pattern.

I'll prepare two more shaft encoder modules and send them.  They are identical to
the one in the first shipment, so that can be used a model for making up a bracket.

7.  Cables

I'll need to know the approximate distance between the units, as well as battery for
making up CAN and power cables.  While not critical the total distance of the CAN bus
should be minimized.  It just means I cannot supply 15 ft cables when in some cases, e.g.
going between the fairlead pulleys might only need 1 ft, otherwise we end up with a
total length that is too long for the data rate, plus the voltage drop is too big 
(since the CAN bus carries the 8v power to the modules).

8. Mounting

- The sketch, 'sensor_orientation.jpg', shows the orientation of the code bars versus
  the photodetectors.

  The width of the bars needs to be greater than the spacing of the photodetectors so
  that a black or white bar will more than cover both photodetectors.  The ideal
  width is one that as the shaft is turned the sequence is--
  off off
  on  off
  on  on
  off on
  with the amount of shaft rotation the same for each of the four states.  Unequal 
  spacing shows up only as jitter at low rpms.  The distance measurement between
  'ticks' is slightly different, thought the cumulative count is always correct.

- Drive shaft
  . Flat black background.
  . White labels about 1" wide, 1" or more long
  . The shaft diameter should accommodate 5 labels
  . Equal spacing, but high precision not really necessary

- Fairled pulleys
  . Glue a printed code wheel to a disc.
  . 2" diameter disc is sufficient, 3/4" probably a bit small.

- Distance of the photodetector from the relfective surface
  . You can experiment by watching the Red LEDs
  . The datasheet shows it as the distance increases from zero, the response
    peaks at about 4.5 mm, then falls off more slowly.  At about 15 mm I think the pickup
    may start to be unreliable.  I would think about 6-7 mm would be a good target.  That
    allows some play either way.  The optimal distance depends somewhat on the white-to-black
    contrast (at infrared).  

- Avoid direct sunlight
  .  The mounting bracket should help shield from direct sunlight
  .  Flat black spray the bracket and surfaces that might reflect should suffice.
  .  Flourescent lights are bad since the detectors are fast to enough to follow them.
 









 
